Mitch Gavars
csci205 Lab01
1pm


(1.1) What is the full path to your home directory?
 
/home/accounts/student/m/mag051

(1.2) What does the -a option do?

Shows all files in the directory including hidden ones

(1.3) What does the -l option do?

Put all items in directory in a list, one per line

(1.4) What option sorts the output of all listing all files by the modification time on each file? Does it sort with the most recent file listed first, or the oldest file first?

ls -lt sorts with the most recent file listed first

(1.5) What options would you need to specify in order to sort the output of the previous step, but in the reverse order?

Specify to use -r so the full command would be: ls -lt -r

(1.6) What option sorts the output by file size?

ls -lS

(1.7) Copy and paste your output for ls -lR csci205 into answers.txt

csci205:
total 4
drwx--x--x 3 mag051 student 4096 Jan 14 13:28 src

csci205/src:
total 4
drwx--x--x 2 mag051 student 4096 Jan 15 18:51 lab01

csci205/src/lab01:
total 8
-rw------- 1 mag051 student 775 Jan 15 18:54 #answers.txt#
-rw------- 1 mag051 student 300 Jan 14 13:52 answers.txt


(2.1) What is a version control system?

A system that records changes to a file or set of set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later.

(2.2) List the three types of version control systems, and give an example scenario where each would be useful.

Local Version Control System (LVCS)
      Useful for copying files into another directory. Used in a system called RCS.

Centralized Version Control System (CVCS)
      Allows developers to collaborate on systems. Administrators have control over who can do what. Examples are CVS, Subversion, and Perforce.

Distributed Version Control System (DVCS)
      Clients can check out the latest snapshots of files along with fully mirroring the repository, including its full history. Examples are GIT, Mercurial, Bazaar, or Darcs.       

(2.3) What type of version control system is Git?

Git is a Distributed Version Control System. 

(2.4) Most operations in Git are performed locally. What does that mean? Name two reasons why this is a beneficial feature to have.

This means that it only needs local files and resources to operate. This is beneficial because the project history can be accessed from the local database and you can work a lot of your work if you are offline or off VPN.

(2.5) How are objects in the Git database addressed? Explain.

They are addressed by their SHA-1 hash which is a 40-character string composed of hexadecimal characters (0-9 and a-f).

(2.6) In a short paragraph, and in YOUR OWN WORDS, explain the three states that a file can be in that is under the Git VCS system.

There are three states that a file under the GIT VCS system can be in: committed, modified, or staged. When a file is committed then the data is stored in the Git directory which stores the metadata and object database for the whole project. Modified means the file has been changed but not committed to the Git database yet, the modified file is in the working directory. Staged files have snapshots stored in the staging area, where its a file, and stores information about what will go into your next commit.

(3.1) What are bytecodes and how are they generated?

The machine language of the Java Virtual Machine. When a JVM loads a class file, it gets one stream of bytecodes for each method in the class.

(3.2) Name a benefit of developing a system to run on a virtual machine such as the JVM

The same .class files are capable of running on multiple Operating Systems.

(3.3) Name one downside of using the JVM as opposed to developing code that executes directly on the native hardware

Java platform can be a bit slower than native code. 

(3.4) Read through the page on how Java Technology will
"change your life". Do you believe everything you read? Do you find anything wrong? Defend your answer.

I do not believe everything I read. It says that because Java is simpler than C++, my development time will be twice as fast when writing. I am just beginning to learn the language so my development time will be about four times as slow. 

(3.5) List the three types of comments used in the Java language.

Single Line-> //
Multi Line-> /*
Documentation-> /**

(3.6) Suppose I had a program called MyProgram.java. What steps would I take to compile and run the program?

javac MyProgram.java
java MyProgram

(4.1) How does the println(String) method behave? Copy and paste the description of the method.

This method behaves as though it invokes print(String) and then println()

public void println(String x)
Prints a String and then terminate the line.

(4.2) Go back to the page for the System class. The object out is the "standard" output stream. What is the object that represents the "standard" input stream? And, what is its type?

The object in is the "standard" input stream. Its type is final which means its constant. 



Programming is not a spectator sport!
Time to execute: 395608


(5.1) Why was the result 1 and not 1.5?

Because both variables are defined as ints

(5.2)What is the output of the code snippet above? Explain your results.

The output of the code is now 1.5 because the answer was defined as a double, which is a floating point number. 

(6.1) – Every Java program must contain a static main method with the header: public static void main( String[] args )
What is the purpose of the args variable?

It is an identifier that is passed as a parameter to the main method.

(6.2) – What does the void keyword represent in a method
declaration?

Indicates that the method does not return anything to the caller.

(6.3) – What is an "identifier"? What are the rules for naming identifiers?

Abbreviations or names used to represent a particular class, variable, or method.

(6.4) – What is a "keyword"?

Special words in the Java language that have special meanings.

(6.5) – What is similar between a float and a double variable? What is different?

They both allow variables to be stored as decimal, but double can store approximately twice the number of significant digits as type float.

(6.6) – What is similar between byte, short, int, and long variables? What is different?

They all store signed numeric values, but a byte only holds one byte, a short stores it in two bytes, an int stores it in four bytes, and long stores it in eight.

(6.7) – Is String a primitive type in Java? If not, what is it?

No it is not a primitive type in Java. The String data type is a class. 

(6.8) – Write the Java declaration for a String variable called name, and initialize it with your name.

String name = new String("Mitch Gavars");

(6.9) – What do we mean by the "scope" of a variable?

The scope indicates the lifetime of a variable.

